# q1-project-predicting-edibility-of-mushrooms

The Mushrooms Dataset takes values of 20 unique attributes in order to predict whether or not any given mushroom will be poisonous (p) or edible (e). Our goal for this project is to build effective models using this dataset that will accurately predict the class variable.

We plan to use this dataset to classify mushrooms as either poisonous (p) or edible (e) based on the 20 outlined attributes. In the real world, this has several implications. If someone sees or interacts with a mushroom that they suspect may be poisonous, for example, how will they know? It would be best to know as soon as possible if they will have symptoms from touching or interacting with something poisonous, but most people will not be able to identify whether something is definitively poisonous or not based on looking at it alone. But if this is the case, what is the optimal method for classifying? It would be possible to create a very simple set of rules that humans can understand and use without following more advanced algorithms, like stating that very colorful mushrooms are poisonous, but this would lose a lot of precision that would result in worse results over time. As a result, it would be useful to use a machine learning model to classify instead. 

Our 5 folders are **data**, **data preprocess**, **deliverables**, **trainvaltestsets**, and **models**. Our data folder contains our original dataset of all of the mushrooms and their characterizing attributes. This file was too large and contained many missing values, so our data preprocessing folder files aimed to reduce the number of instances as well as splitting the data into different sets. These sets are shown in trainvaltestsets, where training, validation, and testing sets were created for various attributes picked by different models, like CFS, Correlation, Infogain, OneR, and our own handpicked attributes. After running these datasets through the weka classifiers, we then got models for each of the different sets, and our models folder contains the model for our OneR classification. More information on how the code is to be run can be found in our deliverables folder in our final report document.
